Add Sonar Cloud to list of Code Analysis Tools (#200)
SAP/styleguides: abap-code-review/src/tools.adoc

@enduml
....

==== Third party checks

There are other tools from third party vendors that can be also used for ABAP code analysis. 

For instance, link:https://www.sonarsource.com/abap/[SonarSource ABAP] can be used to check ABAP source serialized by abapGit. 
Their link:https://github.com/apps/sonarcloud[App] can be used to integrate it with GitHub-based CI pipelines.

> === abap-openapi-client

Reviewer: ```suggestion

=== abap-openapi-client
```
missing line feed to keep formatting intact

> ==== SonarCloud
> 
> link:https://sonarcloud.io/[SonarCloud] is a product for Continuous Code Quality online,  free for open-source projects. It supports multiple languages, ABAP serialized by abapGit being one of them. There are about 100 different rules, with examples and explanations, that can be turned on and off depending on your needs. SonarCloud can be used to seamlessly integrate ABAP-code together with checks for other languages that a project might use.
> 
> SonarCloud can be added by using their link:https://github.com/apps/sonarcloud[GitHub App]
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Third party checks

There are other tools from third party vendors that can be also used for ABAP code analysis. 

For instance, link:https://www.sonarsource.com/abap/[SonarSource ABAP] can be used to check ABAP source serialized by abapGit. 
Their link:https://github.com/apps/sonarcloud[App] can be used to integrate it with GitHub-based CI pipelines.
```

=== abap-openapi-client

External check services often have an link:https://swagger.io/docs/specification/about/[OpenAPI] definition. Unfortunately, there is no standard way of consuming such OpenAPI services in ABAP yet. An emerging open source OpenAPI client for ABAP can be found at https://github.com/abap-openapi/abap-openapi-client

=== SonarCloud

> link:https://sonarcloud.io/[SonarCloud] is a product for Continuous Code Quality online, totally free for open-source projects. It supports multiple languages, Abap serialized by AbapGIT being one of them. There are about 100 different rules, with examples and explainations, that can be turned on and off depending on your needs. SonarCloud can be used to seamelessly integrate Abap Code together with checks for other languages that a project might use.

Author: I'm not affiliated with SonarSource, we are a paying customers that use SonarCloud for our C#, JS and ABAP code review (together with ATC). We find that the two tools complement each other and catches different kinds of errors/mistakes. I did not know it existed until 2 years ago, and I think there are more ABAP-shops that would benefit from using it.

Please suggest how I could make it less "marketing".

> link:https://sonarcloud.io/[SonarCloud] is a product for Continuous Code Quality online, totally free for open-source projects. It supports multiple languages, Abap serialized by AbapGIT being one of them. There are about 100 different rules, with examples and explainations, that can be turned on and off depending on your needs. SonarCloud can be used to seamelessly integrate Abap Code together with checks for other languages that a project might use.

Reviewer 2: as a customer, and vendors basing products on top of opensource, consider choosing vendors which actively support open source

of cause open source is open, but its also open for customers to choose vendors

some people have spent a lot of time sharing, just like this document is shared openly

in my opinion, it's not helping to add a list of commercial only 3rd party vendors

> link:https://sonarcloud.io/[SonarCloud] is a product for Continuous Code Quality online, totally free for open-source projects. It supports multiple languages, Abap serialized by AbapGIT being one of them. There are about 100 different rules, with examples and explainations, that can be turned on and off depending on your needs. SonarCloud can be used to seamelessly integrate Abap Code together with checks for other languages that a project might use.

Author: SonarSource is actually a pretty good open source citizen; most of their products are open source under LGPL, but unfortunately the ABAP check is not one of them. 

They live on github, [https://github.com/SonarSource]
